I spent 10 weeks in a chopper going
around, you know, both the North and
South Island shooting aerials.
A lot of which were not in the movie.
But anyway.
Well, um
Am I allowed to choose two?
In terms of the evolution of of Gollum
as a character using performance capture
and and, you know, if you if you were to
think back, it was originally going to
be a purely animated character and
performance capture was well, motion
capture in those days was in its very
early stages. Peter Jackson who sort of
realized that he wanted an actor to play
Gollum on set with Elijah Wood and Sean
Astin to cuz he drives so many of the
scenes and and drives the division
between those characters. And so, he
wanted an actor to play the role and so
it it evolved. Peter realized that when
I was on set he the energy of
Originally, it was going to be doing a
scene and then stepping out and then
just doing the voice and then they would
act to a vacuum.
Very quickly, Pete realized that that it
was really going to be about the energy
dropped and and it didn't feel that the
all these characters were in the same
space. So, so very quickly, it was sort
of rotoscoping or painting out my
performance which was in the shot and
then the animators were basically
rotoscoping my movements. It was a this
extraordinary world that I suddenly
became part of. And the first shot that
I ever saw completed was a moment in The
Two Towers when when Gollum is on the
rock before he's caught by the by the
Rangers, by Faramir and the Rangers. And
he hears Frodo calling and he turns
around and there's a moment of
distrust, but at the same time by this
time he's he's sort of following Frodo
and there's a connection between them.
>> Gollum, it's us.
Come down now.
>> It was the first fully rendered shot I
ever saw of Gollum and it was seeing all
the work that we'd done to create the
character to to to
figure out who he was and it was just
this is amazing amazing moment to
actually see a comped fully animated
fully rendered shot come together and
I'll never forget it as long as I live.
It was it was it absolutely replicated
the intensity or the intent rather I
should say of the of the of the beat of
the performance
and it really made me think wow this all
this gigantic kind of
entity which is the Gollum team have
brought this to you know really brought
this to bear.
>> Go away.
I hate you.
>> The whole back and forth scene which
has become sort of really well known in
terms of the evolution of Gollum as a
character.
That the first time that we played his
his alter egos off against each other.
You sort of think you're in the head of
one character and then there's a move
camera move which then makes you feel
that they they are it suddenly goes to
two characters and they are talking to
each other and and I think I'll never
forget the moment um
seeing that in front of a live audience
at the Ziegfeld Theater
of the two the opening night of the two
towers and just seeing just seeing an
entire audience sort of sort of just go
just I was sitting behind quite far
back. The shot for me was watching the
shot on screen but watching an entire
cinema audience all just lean lean
forward simultaneously and that is a
moment I will never ever forget.
>> GOLLUM GOLLUM GOLLUM
Sméagol's food.
>> Going forward 10 years we were now using
facial capture we were head mounted
cameras you know bit booms on the end,
and being able to shoot on location up
in the snowy mountains or, you know, in
in the in the sweltering kind of
rainforests. And it was it was a
completely different ball game. And we
weren't having to go back and repeat
shots. We were we you know, it was a one
performance situation. I think one of
the the the shots of Caesar was when we
were actually filming in New Orleans and
it was really, really swelteringly hot.
I mean, the humidity was crazy. It was
the summer. There's a scene between him
and his son who's come back to to find
him.
And it's it's a it's it's a shot where
Caesar explains to his son who's been
corrupted by Koba who's fractured the
ape community up and taken control. And
there's a scene where Caesar's injured
and he's been shot by Koba and he's
lying on on a couch. It's this moment
where he actually explains to his son
that there there are good humans and
there are bad humans. It really got to
the heart of who Caesar was as a
character and and it really spoke to me.
>> How much
like them we are.
>> I mean, I spent I spent an enormous
amount of time doing the aerials which I
I have to say it was one of the greatest
pleasures. I spent 10 weeks in a chopper
going around, you know, going around
both the North and the South Island
shooting aerials and much as though I'd
love to say
that it was on an actor's face, I the
pleasure I got from seeing you see them
and and filming it from above and seeing
some of the dawn skies as clouds rise up
above above
you know, the mountains on the South
Island,
those for me were were equally as sort
of
intoxicating to shoot and make. It's
just not something you get to do, to
have the luxury of doing that. So so as
a second unit director, that was that
was a wonderful privilege.
>> Smash the bottles and burn the corks,
the glasses and crack the plates.
That's what Bilbo Baggins hates.
>> Funny enough, the the smashing the
plates and you know, that song that they
sing, blunt the knives and and bend the
forks,
um that was one of the first big
sequences I shot as second unit
director. And it was also the dwarves
had it was the first time they got to
really let rip on set. They'd been
working on their characters and wearing
those really
heavy prosthetics with cooling suits
underneath and all of that. And this was
their first time to sort of let rip with
their with with their characters. And it
turned into a bit of a frat boy dinner,
you know, where they were all sort of
throwing food at each other and all that
kind of stuff. And it it was really
exciting that was really exciting to
shoot. I loved doing that. And you know,
after imagine plates flying down a table
and being caught and and there's a lot
of mime and all of that, you know, which
had to be rehearsed. So,
that was a quite a complex sequence,
actually. And and mostly really good fun
to shoot cuz I knew that all the actors
were having fun doing it. And and and
then we improvised stuff so that they
were you know, it it it had a kind of
chaotic nature to it as well as being
very very highly choreographed.
Basically, anytime I put the camera on
that Rohan Chand who played Mowgli was
was
his performance, I think, is astonishing
in that film. It really is. He really
took that character seriously. And there
there there's a moment where
one of my favorite shots of him where
there's a sequence, rather, where the
hunter character played by Matthew Rhys
comes and tries to feed him and he
refuses and spits the food out and then
and and and and he's sort of trying to
educate this what he would look down as
a British imperialist as a savage, you
know, and and he's trying to tame this
young boy who's who's who's now quite
animalistic, you know, because he's been
living with animals all all his life.
Then he realizes that there might that
he's trying a different tack and he
opens he opens the gate of the of the
cage that he's in. And there's a shot of
of which is a push in on on young Rowan
Chan's face
of him realizing that he's that he's the
has the opportunity for freedom. And
it's his just the way his eyes light up
at seeing that there's no hit nothing
between there's no bars between him and
and freedom. And and and it was a it was
a really lovely moment as we as we sort
of pushed in and and
his eyes are just incredible in that
shot.
I love the breakfast sequence in that.
Tom Hardy is sitting there trying to eat
his breakfast and and and this craziness
is going on around him. Breakfast being
made in a really chaotic way, the
blender going off and it's just mad
madness. And it's all sort of it
reflects his his psychic kind of
schizophrenic kind of nature, but it's
coming out with this a classic meal
scene in a movie but but with with with
a man with a with a symbiote living
inside and making you breakfast. That
sequence was was really good fun to do.
>> The bottles, tomatoes, tomatoes. Let's
call the whole thing off.
>> Watching Tom work on that was was
fantastic. He was just brilliant.
There's a very specific way that Tom
worked which was to have the voice of
Venom in his ear and and we didn't use
performance capture in that at all. He
he wanted to be able to
envision where where Venom was at any
given moment. So so so he would play
back he would record his voice and then
play back to his own voice in his ear.
And and then place it and then we had to
animate that to fit. It was it was great
cuz it was completely actor driven as it
should be and worked well as a result.
>> That's for you.
>> There's some really beautiful kind of
big-scale shots of of Napoleon sitting
on top of looking down at their
new freedom that they've garnered, and
Napoleon trying to manipulate young
Lucky. And and I think that that sort of
exchange between them is is it's it's a
pivotal sort of moment in the film where
you just you just really
there's the utopia that they've created
and and it's a balmy summer evening and
and then you've got this character who's
been manipulated by by by a someone
who's not who's got he's very dark, you
know, Napoleon played by Seth Rogen, but
he's being very affable and un-unclly.
And and you just feel that manipulation
going on and there's a there's a moment
there's a couple of shots in that of of
of Seth
you can see his the manipulative quality
of what he's doing. And and and again,
sort of in this film, a lot of focus
on the animation was was was was was in
the close-up. You for an animated movie,
this has got a lot more close-ups than
you would normally have because I wanted
the audience to be able to really go
inside the heads of these characters and
not and not feel it was presented to
them in in a sort of
cartoony way.
There's two or three images of films
that that are just like you can just see
and bizarrely, for no reason, but but in
the Titanic, plates falling off a
shuddering mantelpiece falling down
towards you. I often think of that shot
and thinking with all the drama in that
film and all of the
difficulty of shooting that film and the
brilliant performances, for some reason,
that shot alone, I always think of when
I think of Titanic, I think of that
shot. It's really bizarre, but it just
it's how you can encapsulate something
so huge and massive and epic in a in a
single shot, not even on human faces.
That's certainly one. Um The Piano is
one of my favorite films, too. Jane
Campion's film The Piano. There's a
moment there where Holly Hunter's
character is she she's been
held down and had her finger chopped off
by Sam Neill's character. The horror in
her face and the sort of numbness in her
face as realizing what's happened. And
then she falls to the ground in in in
this very muddy
kind of area and her skirt billows out
in this her Victorian kind of crinoline
very repressive
but it's skirt just sort of billows and
she sinks into the mud. And that was
maybe a happy accident, but it was
it just I whenever I think of that film
I I I I will I always think of that
moment because of the despair of the
character and the deflation of
you know, her world falling apart and
then it's just this bellowing of the
skirt sort of as she sinks into the mud.
It's that that that that that's that's
another one that really uh
I always think of, you know, just great
great filmmaking. Perhaps a happy
accident, who knows. And I've got one
one more which which The Red Shoes is
one of my favorite films.
And and there's an amazing shot during
the actual ballet of The Red Shoes right
in the middle of it and this long shadow
kind of just reaches out across the
across the stage and it's
it's just breathtaking and and it's just
says so much and about her mental state,
about the about the power of The Red
Shoes to command her and and
yeah.